{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff40\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Trebuchet MS;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Thorndale{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f43\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f45\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f46\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f48\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f49\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f50\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f432\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}{\f433\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Cyr;}{\f435\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Greek;}
{\f436\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}{\f439\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Baltic;}{\f442\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Thorndale CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f443\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Thorndale Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f445\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Thorndale Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f446\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Thorndale Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f449\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Thorndale Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af40\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f40\fs24\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive Numbering Symbols;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af40\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs24\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af40\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs24\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\noline\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af40\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f40\fs20\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext18 
caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\noline\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af40\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs24\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid361940930\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703
\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713
\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715
\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703
\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713
\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715
\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703
\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713
\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715
\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fi-180\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid893127006}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid893127006\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2450825\rsid4462992
\rsid4616529\rsid5532910\rsid5660595\rsid5905032\rsid6189040\rsid6239511\rsid9134914\rsid9387748\rsid9851342\rsid10181284\rsid10701742\rsid11296080\rsid14969712\rsid15162555\rsid16542129}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.8134;}{\info{\title Excerpts from}
{\author C. Beard}{\operator Carla}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy1\hr10\min39}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy20\hr8\min44}{\printim\yr2007\mo10\dy1\hr10\min39}{\version16}{\edmins48}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords5865}{\nofchars33436}{\*\company Indiana Web Academy}
{\nofcharsws39223}{\vern24611}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}{\xmlns2 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1138\margr1138\margt1138\margb1138\gutter0\ltrsect 
\deftab709\widowctrl\ftntj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace0\dgvspace0\dghorigin0\dgvorigin0\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\jsksu\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot14969712\viewbksp1 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid5905032\sftntj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af40\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f40\fs24\lang1033\langfe255\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp255 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 Excerpts from
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 \'93On the Duty of Civil Disobedience\'94
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 original title, \'93Resistance to Civil Government\'94
\par Henry David Thoreau
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [1]    }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 I HEARTILY ACCEPT the motto, \emdash 
 "That government is best which governs least"; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe, \emdash 
 "That government is best which governs not at all"; and when men are p
repared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have. Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient. The objections which have been brought against a standing a
r
my, and they are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing government. The standing army is only an arm of the standing government. The government itself, which is only the mode which the people have chosen t
o
 execute their will, is equally liable to be abused and perverted before the people can act through it. Witness the present Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few individuals using the standing government as their tool; for, in the outset, the peopl
e would not have consented to this measure.
\par 
\par [2]    This American government \emdash  what is it but a tradition, though a recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality an
d force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will. It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves. But it is not the less necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to sa
t
isfy that idea of government which they have. Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on, even impose on themselves, for their own advantage. It is excellent, we must all allow. Yet this government never of itself furthered any enterpris
e
, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way. It does not keep the country free. It does not settle the West. It does not educate. The character inherent in the American people has done all that has been accomplished; and it would have done some
what more, if the government had not sometimes got in its way. For government is an expedient by which men would fain succeed in letting one another alone; and, as has been said, when it is most expedient, the governed are most let alone by it. ...
\par 
\par [3]    
But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who call themselves no-government men, I ask for, not at once no government, but at once a better government. Let every man make known what kind of government would command his respect, and that wil
l be one step toward obtaining it.
\par 
\par [4]    After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in the hands of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long period continue, to rule, is not because they are most likely to be in the right, nor
 because this seems fairest to the minority, but because they are physically the strongest. But a government in which the majority rule in all cases cannot be based on justice, even as far as men understand it. Can there not be a government in which major
ities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience? \emdash 
 in which majorities decide only those questions to which the rule of expediency is applicable? Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislat
or? Why has every man a conscience, then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any tim
e
 what I think right. ... A common and natural result of an undue respect for law is, that you may see a file of soldiers, colonel, captain, corporal, privates, powder-monkeys, and all, marching in admirable order over hill and dale to the wars, against th
e
ir wills, ay, against their common sense and consciences, which makes it very steep marching indeed, and produces a palpitation of the heart. They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in which they are concerned; they are all peaceably inclined. N
ow, what are they? Men at all? or small movable forts and magazines, at the service of some unscrupulous man in power? ...
\par 
\par [5]   The mass of men serve the state thus, not as men mainly, but as machines, with their bodies. They are the standing army, and th
e militia, jailers, constables, posse comitatus, etc. In most cases there is no free exercise whatever of the judgment or of the moral sense; but they put themselves on a level with wood and earth and stones; and wooden men can perhaps be manufactured tha
t
 will serve the purpose as well. ... Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens. Others, as most legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders, serve the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any moral
 
distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without intending it, as God. A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs, reformers in the great sense, and men, serve the state with their consciences also, and so necessarily resist it for the most part
; and they are commonly treated as enemies by it. ...
\par 
\par [6]    He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them useless and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a benefactor and philanthropist.
\par 
\par [7]    How does it 
become a man to behave toward this American government to-day? I answer, that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it. I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as my government which is the slave's government also.
\par 
\par [8]    All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to, and to resist, the government, when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable. But almost all say that such is not the case now. But such was the
 case, they think, in the Revolution of '75}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10181284  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ..}{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10181284  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
All machines have their friction; and possibly this does enough good to counterbalance the evil}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10181284 . }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10181284  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712  But when the friction comes to have its machine, and oppression and robbery are organized, I say, let us n
ot have such a machine any longer. In other words, when a sixth of the population of a nation which has undertaken to be the refuge of liberty are slaves, and a whole country is unjustly overrun and conquered by a foreign army, and subjected to military l
aw, I think that it is not too soon for honest men to rebel and revolutionize. What makes this duty the more urgent is the fact that the country so overrun is not our own, but ours is the invading army}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10181284  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ..}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 .
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [9}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 ]    Practically speaking, the opponents to a reform in {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname 
State}}Massachusetts{\*\xmlclose}
 are not a hundred thousand politicians at the South, but a hundred thousand merchants and farmers here, who are more interested in commerce and agriculture than they are in humanity, and are not prepared to do justice to the slave and to 
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname country-region}}Mexico{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}
, cost what it may. I quarrel not with far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with, and do the bidding of those far away, and without whom the latter would be harmless}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 .}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ..}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid4616529  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 There are thousands who are in opinion opposed to sl
avery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to them; who, esteeming themselves children of Washington and Franklin, sit down with their hands in their pockets, and say that they know not what to do, and do nothing; who even postpone t
h
e question of freedom to the question of free-trade, and quietly read the prices-current along with the latest advices from Mexico, after dinner, and, it may be, fall asleep over them both. What is the price-current of an honest man and patriot to-day? Th
e
y hesitate, and they regret, and sometimes they petition; but they do nothing in earnest and with effect. They will wait, well disposed, for others to remedy the evil, that they may no longer have it to regret. At most, they give only a cheap vote, and a 
feeble countenance and Godspeed, to the right, as it goes by them. There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man; but it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [10}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 ]    All
 voting is a sort of gaming, like checkers or backgammon, with a slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as
 
I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to leave it to the majority. Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency. Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing t
o men feebly your desire that it should prevail}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
 When the majority shall at length vote for the abolition of slavery, it will be because they are indifferent to slavery, or because there is but little slavery left to be abolished by their vote. They wil
l then be the only slaves. Only his vote can hasten the abolition of slavery who asserts his own freedom by his vote.
\par 
\par [1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    I hear of a convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefl
y of editors, and men who are politicians by profession; but I think, what is it to any independent, intelligent, and respectable man what decision they may come to? Shall we not have the advantage of his wisdom and honesty, nevertheless? Can we not count
 
upon some independent votes? Are there not many individuals in the country who do not attend conventions? But no: I find that the respectable man, so called, has immediately drifted from his position, and despairs of his country, when his country has more
 
reason to despair of him. He forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as the only available one, thus proving that he is himself available for any purposes of the demagogue. His vote is of no more worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner 
or hireling native, who may have been bought. Oh for a man who is a man, and, as my neighbor says, has a bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through! }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712  How many men are there to a square thousand miles in this country? Hardly one. Does not {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname country-region}}America{\*\xmlclose}
{\*\xmlclose} offer any inducement for men to settle here? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [12}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    It is not a man's duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the eradication of any, even the most enormous wrong; he may still properly have other concerns to engage him; but it is his
 duty, at least, to wash his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give it practically his support. If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another ma
n's shoulders. I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
3]    Unjust laws exist; shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at o
nce? Men generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the government
 
itself that the remedy is worse than the evil. It makes it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens 
to be on the alert to point out its faults, and do better than it would have them?  Why does it always crucify Christ, and excommunicate Copernicus and Luther, and pronounce Washington and {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname City}}Franklin{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose} rebels?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [14}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 ]    If the injustice is part of the necessary 
friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go; perchance it will wear smooth \emdash 
 certainly the machine will wear out. If the injustice has a spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself, then perhaps you may consider wheth
er the remedy will not be worse than the evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at
 any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [15}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    I do not hesitate to say, that those who call themselves Abolitionists should at once effectually withdraw their support, both in person and property, from the government of Massach
usetts, and not wait till they constitute a majority of one, before they suffer the right to prevail through them. I think that it is enough if they have God on their side, without waiting for that other one. Moreover, any man more right than his neighbor
s constitutes a majority of one already.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 16}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    I meet this American government, or its representative, the State government, directly, and face to face, once a year \emdash  no more \emdash  in the person of its tax-gatherer; this is the only mode in which a man situa
ted as I am necessarily meets it; and it then says distinctly, Recognize me; and the simplest, the most effectual, and, in the present posture of affairs, the indispensablest mode of treating with it on this head, of expressing your little satisfaction wi
th and love for it, is to deny it then. My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I have to deal with \emdash  for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment that I quarrel \emdash 
 and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the government. How sha
ll he ever know well what he is and does as an officer of the government, or as a man, until he is obliged to consider whether he shall treat me, his neighbor, for whom he has respect, as a neighbor and well-disposed man, or as a maniac and disturber of t
he peace, and see if he can get over this obstruction to his neighborliness without a ruder and more impetuous thought or speech corresponding with his action? I know this well, that if one thousand, if one hundred, if ten men whom I could name \emdash 
 if ten honest men only \emdash 
 ay, if one HONEST man, in this State of Massachusetts, ceasing to hold slaves, were actually to withdraw from this copartnership, and be locked up in the county jail therefor, it would be the abolition of slavery in America. For it matters n
ot how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done forever}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [17}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    Under a government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison. The proper place to-day, the only place which {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname State}}Massachusetts{\*\xmlclose}
{\*\xmlclose} has
 provided for her freer and less desponding spirits, is in her prisons, to be put out and locked out of the State by her own act, as they have already put themselves out by their principles. It is there that the fugitive slave, and the Mexican prisoner on
 parole, and the Indian come to plead the wrongs of his race, should find them; on that separate, but more free and honorable ground, where the State places those who are not with her, but against her \emdash 
 the only house in a slave State in which a free man can abide with honor}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
 Cast your whole vote, not a strip of paper merely, but your whole influence. A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 
\ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712  If
 a thousand men were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood. This is, in fact, the definition of a peaceable revolut
i
on, if any such is possible. If the tax-gatherer, or any other public officer, asks me, as one has done, "But what shall I do?" my answer is, "If you really wish to do anything, resign your office." When the subject has refused allegiance, and the officer
 has resigned his office, then the revolution is accomplished}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid4462992 . ...}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
\par 
\par [1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 8}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 ]    Some years ago, the 
State met me in behalf of the Church, and commanded me to pay a certain sum toward the support of a clergyman whose preaching my father attended, but never I myself. "Pay," it said, "or be locked up in the jail." I declined to pay. But, unfortunately, ano
t
her man saw fit to pay it. I did not see why the schoolmaster should be taxed to support the priest, and not the priest the schoolmaster: for I was not the State's schoolmaster, but I supported myself by voluntary subscription. I did not see why the lyceu
m should not present its tax-bill, and have the State to back its demand, as well as the Church. However, at the request of the selectmen, I condescended to make some such statement as this in writing: \emdash 
 "Know all men by these presents, that I, Henry Thorea
u, do not wish to be regarded as a member of any incorporated society which I have not joined." This I gave to the town clerk; and he has it. The State, having thus learned that I did not wish to be regarded as a member of that church, has never made a li
k
e demand on me since; though it said that it must adhere to its original presumption that time. If I had known how to name them, I should then have signed off in detail from all the societies which I never signed on to; but I did not know where to find a 
complete list.
\par 
\par [1}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 9}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
]    I have paid no poll-tax for six years. I was put into a jail once on this account, for one night; and, as I stood considering the walls of solid stone, two or three feet thick, the door of wood and iron, a foot thick, and the iron gr
ating which strained the light, I could not help being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. I wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best
 
use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services in some way. I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between me and my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or break through, before they could get to be as f
r
ee as I was. I did not for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar. I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax. They plainly did not know how to treat me, but behaved like persons who are underbred. In e
v
ery threat and in every compliment there was a blunder; for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other side of that stone wall. I could not but smile to see how industriously they locked the door on my meditations, which followed them out ag
a
in without let or hindrance, and they were really all that was dangerous. As they could not reach me, they had resolved to punish my body; just as boys, if they cannot come at some person against whom they have a spite, will abuse his dog. I saw that the 
State was half-witted, that it was timid as a lone woman with her silver spoons, and that it did not know its friends from its foes, and I lost all my remaining respect for it, and pitied it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [20}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 ]    Thus the State never intentionally confronts a man's sen
se, intellectual or moral, but only his body, his senses. It is not armed with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest. What force has 
a
 multitude? They only can force me who obey a higher law than I. They force me to become like themselves. I do not hear of men being forced to have this way or that by masses of men. What sort of life were that to live? When I meet a government which says
 
to me, "Your money or your life," why should I be in haste to give it my money? It may be in a great strait, and not know what to do: I cannot help that. It must help itself; do as I do. It is not worth the while to snivel about it. I am not responsible f
o
r the successful working of the machinery of society. I am not the son of the engineer. I perceive that, when an acorn and a chestnut fall side by side, the one does not remain inert to make way for the other, but both obey their own laws, and spring and 
grow and flourish as best they can, till one, perchance, overshadows and destroys the other. If a plant cannot live according to its nature, it dies; and so a man.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 1]    The night in prison was novel and interesting enough. The prisoners in their shirt-s
leeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the doorway, when I entered. But the jailer said, "Come, boys, it is time to lock up"; and so they dispersed, and I heard the sound of their steps returning into the hollow apartments. My room-mate was in
t
roduced to me by the jailer as "a first-rate fellow and a clever man." When the door was locked, he showed me where to hang my hat, and how he managed matters there. The rooms were whitewashed once a month; and this one, at least, was the whitest, most si
m
ply furnished, and probably the neatest apartment in the town. He naturally wanted to know where I came from, and what brought me there; and, when I had told him, I asked him in my turn how he came there, presuming him to be an honest man, of course; and,
 
as the world goes, I believe he was. "Why," said he, "they accuse me of burning a barn; but I never did it." As near as I could discover, he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk, and smoked his pipe there; and so a barn was burnt. He had the repu
tation of being a clever man, had been there some three months waiting for his trial to come on, and would have to wait as much longer; but he was quite domesticated and contented, since he got his board for nothing, and thought that he was well treated.

\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
2]    He occupied one window, and I the other; and I saw that if one stayed there long, his principal business would be to look out the window. I had soon read all the tracts that were left there, and examined where former prisoners had broken out, and wh
ere a grate had been sawed off, and heard the history of the various occupants of that room; for I found that even here there was a history and a gossip which never circulated beyond the walls of the jail. Probably this is the only house in the town where
 verses are composed, which are afterward printed in a circular form, but not published. I was shown quite a long list of verses which were composed by some young men who had been detected in an attempt to escape, who avenged themselves by singing them.

\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
3]    I pumped my fellow-prisoner as dry as I could, for fear I should never see him again; but at length he showed me which was my bed, and left me to blow out the lamp.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 4]    It was like travelling into a far country, such as I had never expected to b
ehold, to lie there for one night. It seemed to me that I never had heard the town-clock strike before, nor the evening sounds of the village; for we slept with the windows open, which were inside the grating. It was to see my native village in the light 
of the Middle Ages, and our {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname City}}Concord{\*\xmlclose} was turned into a {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}Rhine{\*\xmlclose}
 stream, and visions of knights and castles passed before me. They were the voices of old burghers that I heard in the streets. I was an involuntary spectator and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the adjacent village-inn \emdash 
 a wholly new and rare experience to me. It was a closer view of my native town. I was fairly inside of it. I never had seen its institutions before. This is one of its peculiar institutions; for it is a shire
 town. I began to comprehend what its inhabitants were about.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
5]    In the morning, our breakfasts were put through the hole in the door, in small oblong-square tin pans, made to fit, and holding a pint of chocolate, with brown bread, and an iron spoon.
 When they called for the vessels again, I was green enough to return what bread I had left; but my comrade seized it, and said that I should lay that up for lunch or dinner. Soon after he was let out to work at haying in a neighboring field, whither he w
ent every day, and would not be back till noon; so he bade me good-day, saying that he doubted if he should see me again.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 6]    When I came out of prison \emdash  for some one interfered, and paid that tax \emdash 
 I did not perceive that great changes had taken place on the common, such as he observed who went in a youth and emerged a tottering and gray-headed man; and yet a change had to my eyes come over the scene \emdash  the town, and State, and country 
\emdash  greater than any that mere time could effect. I saw yet more disti
nctly the State in which I lived. I saw to what extent the people among whom I lived could be trusted as good neighbors and friends; that their friendship was for summer weather only; that they did not greatly propose to do right; that they were a distinc
t
 race from me by their prejudices and superstitions, as the Chinamen and Malays are; that in their sacrifices to humanity, they ran no risks, not even to their property; that after all they were not so noble but they treated the thief as he had treated th
e
m, and hoped, by a certain outward observance and a few prayers, and by walking in a particular straight though useless path from time to time, to save their souls. This may be to judge my neighbors harshly; for I believe that many of them are not aware t
hat they have such an institution as the jail in their village.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
7]    It was formerly the custom in our village, when a poor debtor came out of jail, for his acquaintances to salute him, looking through their fingers, which were crossed to represent the 
grating of a jail window, "How do ye do?" My neighbors did not thus salute me, but first looked at me, and then at one another, as if I had returned from a long journey. I was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker's to get a shoe which was mended.
 When I was let out the next morning, I proceeded to finish my errand, and, having put on my mended shoe, joined a huckleberry party, who were impatient to put themselves under my conduct; and in half an hour \emdash  for the horse was soon tackled 
\emdash  was in the midst of a huckleberry field,  on one of our highest hills, two miles off, and then the State was nowhere to be seen.
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 8]    This is the whole history of "My Prisons."
\par 
\par [}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 9]    I have never declined paying the highway tax, because I am as desirous of being
 a good neighbor as I am of being a bad subject; and as for supporting schools, I am doing my part to educate my fellow-countrymen now. It is for no particular item in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay it. I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, 
to withdraw and stand aloof from it effectually. I do not care to trace the course of my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man or a musket to shoot one with \emdash  the dollar is innocent \emdash 
 but I am concerned to trace the effects of my allegiance. In fact, I quietly declare war with the State, after my fashion, though I will still make what use and get what advantage of her I can, as is usual in such cases.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
0]    If others pay the tax which is demanded of me, from a sympathy with the State, they do but what th
ey have already done in their own case, or rather they abet injustice to a greater extent than the State requires. If they pay the tax from a mistaken interest in the individual taxed, to save his property, or prevent his going to jail, it is because they
 have not considered wisely how far they let their private feelings interfere with the public good.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
1]    This, then, is my position at present. But one cannot be too much on his guard in such a case, lest his action be biased by obstinacy or an undue regard for the opinions of men. Let him see that he does only what belongs to himself and to the hour.

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
2]    I think sometimes, Why, this people mean well; they are only ignorant; they would do better if they knew how: why give your neighbors this pain to
 treat you as they are not inclined to? But I think, again, This is no reason why I should do as they do, or permit others to suffer much greater pain of a different kind. Again, I sometimes say to myself, When many millions of men, without heat, without 
i
ll-will, without personal feeling of any kind, demand of you a few shillings only, without the possibility, such is their constitution, of retracting or altering their present demand, and without the possibility, on your side, of appeal to any other milli
o
ns, why expose yourself to this overwhelming brute force? You do not resist cold and hunger, the winds and the waves, thus obstinately; you quietly submit to a thousand similar necessities. You do not put your head into the fire. But just in proportion as
 
I regard this as not wholly a brute force, but partly a human force, and consider that I have relations to those millions as to so many millions of men, and not of mere brute or inanimate things, I see that appeal is possible, first and instantaneously, f
r
om them to the Maker of them, and, secondly, from them to themselves. But, if I put my head deliberately into the fire, there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker of fire, and I have only myself to blame. If I could convince myself that I have any right t
o
 be satisfied with men as they are, and to treat them accordingly, and not according, in some respects, to my requisitions and expectations of what they and I ought to be, then, like a good Mussulman and fatalist, I should endeavor to be satisfied with th
i
ngs as they are, and say it is the will of God. And, above all, there is this difference between resisting this and a purely brute or natural force, that I can resist this with some effect; but I cannot expect, like Orpheus, to change the nature of the ro
cks and trees and beasts.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
3]    I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation. I do not wish to split hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my neighbors. I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to the laws of
 the land. I am but too ready to conform to them. Indeed, I have reason to suspect myself on this head; and each year, as the tax-gatherer comes round, I find myself disposed to review the acts and position of the general and State governments, and the sp
irit of the people, to discover a pretext for conformity.
\par     "We must affect our country as our parents,
\par      And if at any time we alienate
\par      Our love or industry from doing it honor,
\par      We must respect effects and teach the soul
\par      Matter of conscience and religion,
\par      And not desire of rule or benefit."
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 4]    I believe that the State will soon be able to take all my wor
k of this sort out of my hands, and then I shall be no better a patriot than my fellow-countrymen. Seen from a lower point of view, the Constitution, with all its faults, is very good; the law and the courts are very respectable; even this State and this 
A
merican government are, in many respects, very admirable and rare things, to be thankful for, such as a great many have described them; but seen from a point of view a little higher, they are what I have described them; seen from a higher still, and the h
ighest, who shall say what they are, or that they are worth looking at or thinking of at all?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
5]    However, the government does not concern me much, and I shall bestow the fewest possible thoughts on it. It is not many moments that I live under a govern
ment, even in this world. If a man is thought-free, fancy-free, imagination-free, that which is not never for a long time appearing to be to him, unwise rulers or reformers cannot fatally interrupt him.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 6]    I know that most men think differently from 
myself; but those whose lives are by profession devoted to the study of these or kindred subjects, content me as little as any. Statesmen and legislators, standing so completely within the institution, never distinctly and nakedly behold it. They speak of
 
moving society, but have no resting-place without it. They may be men of a certain experience and discrimination, and have no doubt invented ingenious and even useful systems, for which we sincerely thank them; but all their wit and usefulness lie within 
c
ertain not very wide limits. They are wont to forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency. Webster never goes behind government, and so cannot speak with authority about it. His words are wisdom to those legislators who contemplate no e
s
sential reform in the existing government; but for thinkers, and those who legislate for all time, he never once glances at the subject. I know of those whose serene and wise speculations on this theme would soon reveal the limits of his mind's range and 
h
ospitality. Yet, compared with the cheap professions of most reformers, and the still cheaper wisdom and eloquence of politicians in general, his are almost the only sensible and valuable words, and we thank Heaven for him. Comparatively, he is always str
o
ng, original, and, above all, practical. Still, his quality is not wisdom, but prudence. The lawyer's truth is not truth, but consistency or a consistent expediency. Truth is always in harmony with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justi
c
e that may consist with wrong-doing. He well deserves to be called, as he has been called, the Defender of the Constitution. There are really no blows to be given by him but defensive ones. He is not a leader, but a follower. His leaders are the men of '8
7. "I have never made an effort," he says, "and never propose to make an effort; I have never countenanced an effort, and never mean to countenance an effort, to disturb the arrangement as originally made, by which the various States came into the 
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}Union{\*\xmlclose}." Still thinking of the sanction which the Constitution gives to slavery, he says, "Because it was a part of the original compact \emdash 
 let it stand." Notwithstanding his special acuteness and ability, he is unable to take a fact out of its merely political relations, and behold it as it lies absolutely to be disposed of by the intellect \emdash 
 what, for instance, it behooves a man to do here in America to-day with regard to slavery, but ventures, or is driven, to make some such desperate answer as the following, while professing to speak absolutely, and as a private man \emdash 
 from which what new and singular code of social duties might be inferred? "The manner," says he, "in which the governments of those States where slavery exists are to regulate it is for their own cons
ideration, under their responsibility to their constituents, to the general laws of propriety, humanity, and justice, and to God. Associations formed elsewhere, springing from a feeling of humanity, or any other cause, have nothing whatever to do with it.
 They have never received any encouragement from me, and they never will."
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 
7]    They who know of no purer sources of truth, who have traced up its stream no higher, stand, and wisely stand, by the Bible and the Constitution, and drink at it there with r
everence and humility; but they who behold where it comes trickling into this lake or that pool, gird up their loins once more, and continue their pilgrimage toward its fountain-head.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 8]    No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname 
place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname country-region}}America{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}. T
hey are rare in the history of the world. There are orators, politicians, and eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his mouth to speak who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of the day. We love eloquence for its ow
n
 sake, and not for any truth which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire. Our legislators have not yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of union, and of rectitude, to a nation. They have no genius or talent for comparative
l
y humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and manufacturers and agriculture. If we were left solely to the wordy wit of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the peopl
e, {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname country-region}}America{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}
 would not long retain her rank among the nations. For eighteen hundred years, though perchance I have no right to say it, the New Testament has been written; yet where is the legislator who has wisdom and practical talent enough to avail himself 
of the light which it sheds on the science of legislation?
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid14969712\charrsid14969712 [3}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910\charrsid14969712 9]    The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to \emdash 
 for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well \emdash 
 is still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it. The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from 
a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual. Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible 
i
n government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from
 
which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. I please myself with imagining a State at least which can afford to be just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which even would not think it in
c
onsistent with its own repose if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow-men. A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened
, would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen.
\par   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5532910 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\f39\fs22\insrsid9134914\charrsid15162555 Postreading Questions
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid9134914 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 1.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 In paragraphs 1 & 2, Thoreau refers to government as \'93an expedient.\'94
 What goals does he say government can help achieve?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid9134914 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 2.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914 
In paragraphs 4 & 5 Thoreau describes the effect of having more respect for law than for justice (\'93the right\'94). Summarize his beliefs in your own words.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid15162555 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid5660595 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 3.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 In paragraphs 7 - 11, Thoreau expresses his discontent with the current g
overnment and with many Americans. To what govern}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid6239511 mental policy does he object? With}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595  what American attitudes does he take issue?}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid15162555 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid5660595 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 4.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 Thoreau poses a question at the beginning of paragraph 13. }{\rtlch\fcs1 
\af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid6239511 Based on your reading of the rest of the essay, w}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 hich answer does he believe is best? How do you know? (Include key quotations in your answer.)

\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid5660595 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 5.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 In paragraph}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 s}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595  19}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742  - 23,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595  Thoreau suggests that he didn\rquote 
t mind going to jail. Explain his attitude }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid6189040 toward his incarceration. (Include key quotations in your answer.)}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid11296080 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 6.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid11296080 Are there any circumstances under which }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 you }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid11296080 could }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 share Thoreau\rquote s attitude}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid9387748  toward imprisonment}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5660595 ? Explain your answer. 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid10701742 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 7.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 
In paragraphs 24 - 27, Thoreau says he felt as if he had never seen his town before. What }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid16542129 traits }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 
does he imply that it has in common with the Middle Ages?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid16542129  What new perspectives does he gain regarding the other citizens of {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname City}}Concord{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742  
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid10701742 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 8.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 In paragraphs 29 \endash }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f39\fs22\insrsid9851342  32}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid10701742 , Thoreau explains why he refuses to pay his taxes. Summarize his reasons in your own words.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5905032 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\lang1033\langfe255\langfenp255\insrsid2450825 \hich\af39\dbch\af0\loch\f39 9.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar
\jclisttab\tx720\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls1\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11296080 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid2450825 In paragra}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid11296080 
phs 36-39, Thoreau describes his ideal legislator. Summarize his ideas.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid5905032 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\hyphpar0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9851342 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af39\afs22 \ltrch\fcs0 \f39\fs22\insrsid9134914\charrsid14969712 
\par }}